Broadband Wireless Technology: The wireless technology used to provide high-speed data transmission over a wide area.

1) Existing Architecture
  • Currently, mobile devices are connected to the internet through a cellular network such as 4G or 5G.
  • An IP address is given by the cellular network, and traffic is routed through the network's core infrastructure.
  • There are various technologies used for various services (e.g. GSM for voice calls, CDMA for SMS).

2) All IP Architecture
  • A network architecture in which all communication services are delivered over a single end-to-end IP network.
  • SMS, Voice, Video, Data, etc. are all delivered over the same IP network.
  • Mobile devices are assigned a unique IP address and is directly accessible through a wireless access point.
  • The benefits of using an All IP Architecture are:
    ‣ It is a cost-effective solution (one network, one infrastructure, one management system).
    ‣ A more secure network (one network, one security system).

3) Mobile Telephone System
  • A mobile telephone system consists of:
    a) CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access)
      ‣ It is a digital cellular technology that allows multiple users to share a single radio frequency.
      ‣ It uses a unique code for each user to differentiate between users.
      ‣ This is beneficial in highly populated areas as many users can share the same frequency.

    b) TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access)
      ‣ This is also a digital cellular technology that allows multiple users to share a single radio frequency.
      ‣ However, it uses time slots to differentiate between users.
      ‣ A single frequency is divided into time slots and each user is allocated a time slot in a cyclic manner.
      ‣ The dividing of time slots is very similar to CPU scheduling.
      ‣ When a user is transmitting, the other users in the same frequency are not allowed to transmit.

    c) GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications)
      ‣ It is a digital cellular technology that allows multiple users to share a single radio frequency.
      ‣ It uses a combination of TDMA and FDMA (Frequency Division Multiple Access) to differentiate between users.
      ‣ It uses time slots to differentiate between users and frequency to differentiate between time slots.
      ‣ It is the most widely used mobile telephone system in the world.
