Scenario - SCADA Vulnerability

Part 1:
  At a hacker convention, a group of vulnerability researchers havae released a large number of high consequence, easy to exploit control systems product vulnerabilities. Working exploits for these vulnerabilities have been packaged in an easy to use form. These control system products are used extensively in your jurisdiction's critical infrastructure.

  Discussion questions:
  1)  Is the release of these vulnerabilities an offence?
    ‣ Although it is not prohibited to discover vulnerabilities or to publish information about them, the distribution of vulnerabilities itself need not be considered a crime.

      If the vulnerability is used, has an offence been committed by the user and/or the creator?
    ‣ It would be unlawful and may lead to criminal charges if the vulnerabilities were exploited to conduct attacks against important infrastructure or other targets.
    ‣ If the vulnerability was purposefully established for evil motives, the person who created it might also be charged. 

  2)  When would this be pursued? As the vulnerability is released to critical systems, are there different rules of engagement?
  ‣ Whether or not to pursue these vulnerabilities would depend on how serious a threat they are to key infrastructure
  ‣ In other words, how much harm they could potentially do.
  ‣ If these vulnerabilities constitute a serious risk, it may be required to take precautions to reduce the risks
  ‣ However, if the vulnerabilities are not serious, it may not be necessary to take any action.

  3) Who would you notify at this stage? (not knowing if the vulnerability has been utilized yet)
    ‣ Informing the local authorities about the release of such vulnerabilities would be ideal.
    ‣ If the vulnerabilities are serious, informing the public about the risks and how to protect themselves is important.

  4) Would you be able to identify who uses this product in your jurisdiction? If so, how?
    ‣ If there is internal data about the users of the product, such as
      a) registration data
      b) customer lists
      c) public procurement records
      d) etc..

Part 2
  You've contacted the vendor and the vendor has informed you that they no longer support the product, it is too complex and uneconomical to fix as it is an end of life product. The vendor is in your jurisdiction.

  Discussion questions:
    1) What action would you take?
      ‣ I would have to explore other options, such as finding an alternative product/system.
      ‣ I may also need to ask other parties and organizations that have been affected by this product to coordinate a response.

    2) Would your stakeholders utilise third party patches?
      ‣ Stakeholders would not like third-party fixes as they come with a risk and might create new vulnerabilities.
      ‣ If stakeholders were to install a third-part patch, they will have to take precautions (such as backing up the system, etc)
      ‣ Therefore, it is crucial to engage with reliable vendors if stakeholders are to use third-party patches.

    3) What advice would you provide to your stakeholders?
      ‣ Since the stakeholders are dealing with an end-of-life product, the risk of having a cyber attack is high
      ‣ Therefore, I would advice the stakeholders to
        a) Evaluate their security posture (such as the security of their network, etc)
        b) Take precautions to reduce the risk of cyber attacks (such as installing a firewall, etc)
        c) Find a trusted replacement product/system or install a third-party patch as soon as possible
      Stakeholders should also be aware of the risks of using third-party patches and take precautions to reduce the risks.

Part 3
  Through protracted negotiations the vendor has now finally agreed to release a patch. There is also an impact on cross-border stakeholders. For example, a power station across the border that supplies power to your jurisdiction.

  Discussion questions
    1) Do you have the mechanisms in place to ensure cross-border stakeholders use the patch?
      ‣ Some mechanisms could be used to encourage stakeholders to use the patch, but all cross-border may not use the patch.
      ‣ Some mechanisms can be:
        a) Working with industry groups or regulatory bodies to inform all stakeholders to use the patch
        b) Utilizing communication channels such as social media, email lists, etc to inform stakeholders about the patch
        c) Working with other jurisdictions to inform stakeholders about the patch (such as the power station across the border)
